# pizza-shop-management-system
A Retail Management System of  a Pizza shop for an offline store using Python.

This case study looks at the problem of managing a Pizza Shop. The basic problem in the Shop management software is the lack of flexibility in taking order along with restricted control over the employees. Security is another issue in this type of software.  Every Pizza Shop has some employees to take the order, but the amount of time taken by them for generating the order is quite high. Our product is not only aimed to decrease the order time significantly but also provide a greater flexibility while taking orders. Also, access of the account to different designated employees is different thereby having a better control and check on the employees by the higher authorities, hence to solve these problems and to provide a better and efficient mechanism we plan to design a “Pizza Shop Management System (PSMS).”
Our PSMS will be equipped with a user-friendly Input screen, having functionality ranging from ordering a Pizza to edit profile and to change/edit employee details based on the designation of the user. For this System there will be a System Administrator, Shop Manager, Shop Cashiers and Customers entering in the shop. System Administrator will be having full view and edit rights over other employees whereas the Manager will be having some restricted rights over the Cashier. Cashier on the other hand will be having rights only on his account. All of the employees will be provided with a unique ID and a secured password to enter the system.
The purpose of the project is to build an application program to reduce the manual work for managing the Customer and Employees, Order Status, and Redeem Points. It tracks all the details about the Sales, Menu, Orders, Employees and Customer.
Now when the customer enters the restaurant, he will tell his order to the cashier. Cashier with the help of the input screen using the intuitive graphical user interface, will ask for customer mobile number and starts taking up the order. If customer is a new customer then his account will be created by the cashier during the process of taking the order and not disrupting the flow of functioning of the software. While taking order cashier will be having many functions to work with, which can be used at any time during the process such as “view menu”, “view order details”, “cancel order” along with some others.  Orders can be placed in more than one way by either specifying the “name” or “ID” or “shortcut” associated with the product. In case of any wrong item placed or customer does not wants it, only the last item can be withdrawn from the order using “last” command without discarding or cancelling the whole order. After the order is confirmed, the customer will be asked to redeem his points or not, if having any. The customer will then pay for his order and after confirmation by the cashier; system will “print” the order into a text file and save the state of the transaction into the database. 
Customer if wants while waiting for his order can check his account to view his order and details of his points.

